well we believe having uh
the ability to save uh
and transact is something that should be
universal and
a lot of forms have adopted that goal
we won't be able to do that with
traditional systems that is the cost of
bank branches and paperwork
it's just too high uh but fortunately
starting with countries like kenya
uh and more recently with the robust
system in places like
india we see that you can have
digital financial inclusion uh india is
a great example they did a lot of their
own technology
which won't be possible for other
countries
and so the role of the gates foundation
as an advocate
for those who don't have access today
is to make sure there's technology and
standards
including open source work uh that we're
providing through the
financial switch which is called mojo
loop and through the
digital identity system which is
extremely valuable not just for
financial
activities but for health and voting and
education
and that's called most sip since there
isn't going to be a one-size-fits-all
solution
what is the role that you see the
private sector playing in being able to
collaborate with different governments
to ensure that we move forward
well once you have the digital money
system
then there's all sorts of uh services
and applications that can be built on
top of that whether it's helping with
health or education or
agriculture you know giving people
visibility
into their financial status giving them
advice
you know should they take a loan should
they buy insurance
what makes sense the the phone becomes a
connection for low-cost interaction with
those customers that doesn't require
human activity that you know would be
beyond the means of uh the people we're
trying to get to
who don't yet have these accounts so the
digital revolution
which of course was where i worked
before uh moving full-time to the
foundation
here we're trying to make sure that the
developing countries have the benefit of
the
the digital revolution uh in some cases
before
it gets to even some of the rich
countries who have legacy systems that
people are so used to that the speed
that they'll transition out of them
uh you know won't be as fast as say
china or
india that didn't have that history
and so it's really learning what worked
uh
in china and india and now making it
easy
for even smaller countries to do this
working with a lot of partners including
the world bank african development bank
many of them
so private sector uh will help these
central banks create these systems
but moreover the phone companies the
banks
and the entrepreneurs will build
applications that
use these financial capabilities
you